---
title: DevSecOps for intra-organizational software dev. teams
subtitle: DevSecOps
layout: default
modal-id: 4
date: 01/09/2019
img: devsec.png
thumbnail: devsec-thumbnail.png
alt: image-alt
project-date: March 2022
client: Start Bootstrap
category: Analytics and Intelligence
description: 
---

# Overview

DevSecOps is an emerging software development paradigm that aims to continuously and rapidly deliver secure software. However, practitioners are facing many challenges in keeping up with the pace of rapid deployment cycles of DevSecOps while performing security assessments (e.g. Application Security Testing). Studies have further highlighted that the paradigm shift related to adopting DevSecOps is inherently centred on the culture of the organization. To this end, fostering a highly collaborative environment is seen as central to the success of DevSecOps. However, despite socio-technical aspects playing a major role in DevSecOps, it is an area with less focus in the literature. Therefore, this project aims systematically review existing state-of-the-art on the topic, revealing novel and hidden socio-technical understanding of DevSecOps processes, practices, and tools. The findings from the review of the existing literature and DevSecOps practitioner based studies will be systematically integrated to build an evidence-based body of knowledge that will allow the project team to determine the areas where methodological and tool support is required. 



# Publications

- [Challenges and solutions when adopting DevSecOps: A systematic review. 2022.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584921001543)  
- [An Empirical Analysis of Practitioners' Perspectives on Security Tool Integration into DevOps. 2021](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3475716.3475776)

# Team Members

- Roshan N.Rajapakse
- Mansooreh Zahedi
- M. Ali Babar


